# Radar

* Source: [http://github.com/mitchellh/radar](http://github.com/mitchellh/radar)
* IRC: `#vagrant` on Freenode

Radar is a tool which provides a drop-in solution to catching and reporting
errors in your Ruby applications in customizable ways.

Radar is not a typical exception notifier such as Hoptoad and Exceptional
since the former are built with Rails apps in mind, logging to a central
server. Instead, Radar was initially built for [Vagrant](http://vagrantup.com),
a command line tool. And instead of solely logging to a central server,
Radar supports logging in configurable ways (to a file, to a server, to
a growl notification, etc.)

Radar was built out of the need for an easy automated solution to catching
exceptions and gathering information, since I noticed that every time a stack
trace was outputted for [Vagrant](http://vagrantup.com), I was asking the
user all the same questions which could've easily have been gathered automatically.
Now, Vagrant users can simply send me the radar output and I don't have to
ask for any more information 90% of the time.

## Quick Start

    gem install radar

Then just begin logging exceptions in your application:

    r = Radar::Application.new(:my_application)
    r.config.reporter Radar::Reporter::FileReporter
    r.report(exception)

You can also tell Radar to attach itself to Ruby's `at_exit` hook
so it can catch application-crashing exceptions automatically:

    r.rescue_at_exit!

Both of the above methods can be used together, of course.

Since the above enabled the `FileReporter` for the application, reported
exceptions will be stored in a text file on the local filesystem, by default
at `~/.radar/errors/my_application`. Sample contents of the exception
data generated by default is shown below. Note that you can add your own
custom data to this output by using data extensions (covered in the user
guide).

    {
       "application":{
          "name":"my_application"
       },
       "exception":{
          "klass":"RuntimeError",
          "message":"This was an example exception",
          "backtrace":[
             "test.rb:28:in `<main>'"
          ],
          "uniqueness_hash":"296d169e7928c4433ccfcf091b4d737aabe83dcb"
       },
       "occurred_at":1281894743,
       "host_environment":{
          "ruby_version":"1.9.2",
          "ruby_pl":-1,
          "ruby_release_date":"2010-07-11",
          "ruby_platform":"x86_64-darwin10.4.0"
       }
    }

Also, instead of assigning the application to a variable, you may also
look it up later anywhere in your application:

    Radar::Application.find(:my_application).report(exception)

    # Or the shorthand:
    Radar[:my_application].report(exception)

## Documentation and User Guide

For more details on configuring Radar, please view the
[user guide](http://mitchellh.github.com/radar/file.user_guide.html), which
is a detailed overview of Radar and all of its features.

## Reporting Bugs and Requesting Features

Please use the [issues section](http://github.com/mitchellh/radar/issues) to report
bugs and request features. This section is also used as the TODO area for the
Radar gem.

## Contributing

To hack on Radar, you'll need [bundler](http://github.com/carlhuda/bundler) which
can be installed with a simple `gem install bundler`. Then, do the following:

    bundle install
    rake

This will run the test suite, which should come back all green! Then you're
good to go.

The general steps to contributing a new change are:

1. Fork the repository
2. Make your changes, writing tests if necessary
3. Open an [issue](http://github.com/mitchellh/radar/issues) with the feature and
   a link to your fork or a gist with a patch.
4. Wait patiently, for I am but one man.
